# register
## General purpose registers
EAX = AX + AH + AL  : accumulator
EBX = BX + BH + BL
ECX = CX + CH + CL  : counter
EDX = DX + DH + DL
ESI
EDI
## Special purpose registers
ESP : stack pointer
EBP : base pointer

# Memory and Addressing Modes
## declare static data region: 
* command:  .DATA: DB, DW, DD
* locations declared in sequence will be located in memory next to one another

.DATA
var	DB  64	    ;declare one byte, referred to as location var
var2	DB  ?	    ;declare a uninitialized byte
	DB  10	    ;declare a byte with no label. Its location is var2 + 1
X	DW  ?	    ;declare a 2-byte uninitialized value
Y	DD  30000   ;declare a 4-byte value
## declare an array
* assembly has no multi-dim arrays. Arrays are simply a number of cells located contiguously in memory
* a few ways to declare array:
    1. list the values directly
    2. use DUP (duplication) directive
    3. use string literals

Z	DD  1, 2, 3	;declare three 4-bytes values, initialzied to 1, 2 and 3. The value of location Z + 8 will be 3
bytes	DB  10 DUP(?)	;declare 10 uninitialized bytes starting at location bytes
arr	DD  100 DUP(0)	;declare 100 4-byte words starting at location arr, all initialized to 0
str	DB  'hello',0	;declare 6 bytes starting at the address str, initialized to the ASCII char. values for 'hello' and the null (0) byte
## addressing memory
mov	eax, [ebx]	    ;move the 4 bytes in memory at the address contained in EBX to EAX
mov	[var], ebx	    ;move the contents of EBX to the 4 bytes at memory address *var*
mov	eax, [esi-4]	    ;move 4 bytes at memory address ESI + (-4) to EAX
mov	[esi+eax], cl	    ;move the contents of CL into the byte at address ESI + EAX
mov	edx, [esi+4\*ebx]   ;move the 4 bytes of data at address ESI+4\*EBX into EDX

### invalid address calculation
mov	eax, [ebx-ecx]	    ;can only add register values
mov	[eax+esi+edi], ebx  ;at most 2 reg. in address computation

## Size directives
* most of the time, the intended size can be inferred from the instruction; but some times, we can't
    > mov	[eax], 2	;we don't know the size of operand 2
* so we need to specify size explicitly: BYTE PTR, WORD PTR, DWORD PTR 
mov	BYTE PTR [ebx], 2	;move 2 into the single byte at the address stored in EBX
mov	WORD PTR [ebx], 2	;move the 16-bite int. rep. of 2 into 2 bytes starting at the address stored in EBX
mov	DWORD PTR [ebx], 2	;move the 32-bite int. rep. of 2 into 4 bytes starting at the address stored in EBX

# Instructions
* mainly 3 kinds: data movement, arithmetic/logic, and control-flow
    <reg32>	Any 32-bit reg. (EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, ESP, or EBP)
    <reg16>	Any 16-bit reg. (AX, BX, CX, or DX)
    <reg8>	Any 8-bit reg. (AH, AL, BH, BL, CH, CL, DH, or DL)
    <reg>	Any reg.
    <mem>	A memory address (e.g.: [eax], [var + 4] or dword ptr [eax+ebx])
    <con32>	Any 32-bit constant
    <con16>	Any 16-bit const.
    <con8>	Any 8-bit const.
    <con>	Any 8-, 16-, or 32-bit const.

## Data Movement
* mov: copy the data referred to by its 2nd operand into the location referred to by its first operand
    mov <reg>, <reg>
    mov <reg>, <mem>
    mov <mem>, <reg>
    mov <reg>, <const>
    mov <mem>, <const>
* push: places its operand onto the top of the hardware supported stack in memory
